we begin in the Middle East where gaza's
Health Ministry says at least 30 people
have been killed in an Israeli strike on
a school which was Sheltering displaced
Palestinians Israeli missiles hit the
Kadija School Compound in Deer Al Bala
in the center of Gaza it had been
housing Palestinians who had been forced
to flee their homes since the War Began
the Israeli Army says the strike was
targeting a Hamas command and control
center which was inside the
school ambulances brought those killed
and injured including children to a
nearby hospital in the area let's hear
from Palestinians who were caught up in
that strike in an instant Rockets
dropped on us and we are already wounded
it's only been a couple of months since
I came back from Egypt with my daughter
and now my daughter is wounded and was
taken to the hospital I was sitting in
the tent at our neighbors I heard heavy
strikes I started running my daughter
was in one place and I was in another I
saw people running towards the place
that was struck the people Sheltering in
Cadia School are all wounded and they
are innocent and this should not have
happened to
them voices on the ground in dear Al
Bala well further south in the Gaza
Strip the Israeli armies order an
evacuation of Southern parts of Khan
yunes which had previously been
designated a humanitarian Zone this is a
map of where Palestinians have been
ordered to move now the military says
the evacuation was in response to Rocket
fire our correspondent Mark Lo's been
monitoring developments from
Jerusalem yeah these were Israeli
missiles that fell on that uh on that
School Compound in central Gaza this
morning reini and uh the BBC has
verified footage from the after
aftermath of the attack that shows that
some of the victims were children I've
watched other footage as well that show
um uh women and children blooded being
rushed in ambulances to the nearby
hospital now um the Gaz and health
Ministry has said that at least 30
people have been killed in that attack
the Israeli Defense Forces as you say
said that it was an attack based on
precise intelligence that showed that in
their words Hamas command and control
center was established and embedded
within that School Compound from which
Hamas was launching attacks on Israeli
soldiers and also stockpiling large
quantities of weapons and that um every
attempt was made to reduce the number of
Civilian casualties but along with the
other attacks that have happened around
hunis uh in southern Gaza today it's
taken the death toll or the number of
those killed today so far in in those
attacks to more than 55 and Mark you
mentioned Han Unice we also mentioned in
my introduction about how the Israeli
Army has an evacuation order for
southern areas of Han units these are
areas of course that were previously
designated as humanitarian zones but the
Army is saying that this is all in
response to Rocket fire so what more do
we know about what's happening
there yeah well this is a strip of
territory it's actually called Al maasi
it's on the outskirts of Han Yunis it's
a coastal uh strip which is just 16
square km 10 square miles and it had
been designated a humanitarian Zone and
and it's massively overcrowded because
of course it contains hundreds of
thousands of people who had been told by
the Israeli Army to go there because it
was a place of relative safety I mean
all nowhere in Gaza is safe as you know
and and you know there have been attacks
on almasi in in recent weeks so it is a
place of relative safety what the
Israeli Defense Forces have now said
that they have adjusted the border of
the humanitarian Zone in that area
because they say that Hamas is operating
in a in in a in a a corner of it and
launching attacks on Israeli soldiers so
they have basically reduced the size of
the humanitarian Zone and dropped flyers
and sent messages to people telling them
to move that area it's the second time
in a week reini that the Israeli Defense
Forces have adjusted the boundaries of
that humanitarian Zone last week they
did so just before an operation by IDF
soldiers there in order to retrieve five
the bodies of five Israeli hostages
seized by Hamas on the 7th of October we
don't know what um kind of operation
would be launched now uh but the
Israelis say that they're preparing for
what they what they call a forceful
operation and an intervention in that
area